I hate this. You wouldn't think so. Once daylight
came, how much damage had been done to the house?
You'd have to look at the picture. Our stuff, a lot
of it had been carried out and a lot of it hadn't.
First thing I remember was somebody came to me and
said, Ms. Williams, your tea set is at such and such
a place. Now, the tea set is in the living room and on
the tray it says to Jack Williams from his friends
at Clemson. And the whole tea set was given to him
when we left here. That was carried out. And then
the men started coming in. You see it was still
water dripping and so forth. And they started
carrying things out. And they were working
panically. They weren't calm at all getting stuff
out there. I don't know where they thought the roof
was going to fall in on them or not. And they were
carrying out a chest. And I said, let me get my
clock. And they didn't even hear me. And my clock
fell and was broken. I still have it in there
patched up. But people, and I was out in the street.
I went to the bathroom and got his shaving gear and
everything we needed and moved it out with us. And
Nelda didn't say anything after she saw that I had
gotten it all before we left. About what
percentage of the furnishings, your
furnishings, were destroyed?
Half. No, I would say that not much was completely
destroyed. A lot of it had to be cleaned and
reupholstered and that thing. And
the insurance company took care of that. They were
very good about it. And we moved down to that other
house in Bryan. And what I did was I took the living
dining area, they blended together, and I used the
living room and dining room as a storage room. And
then I furnished for us the den and a bedroom for us
and another bedroom with Jack's office in it. And
of course we had a kitchen, but I just used, I bought
a screen that's down in the basement and put it out
in the hallway to block off the living room and the
dining room. And that was our storage room for our
furniture. And I can adjust to anything. If you
lived in a trailer without a bathroom for a year and
a half, you could certainly live in brine in a house
that you knew was temporary. And one other thing
that told you a lot about Jack, we had one man who had
helped us when we moved to College Station. He came
in.
I wanted to say Donaldson, that wasn't his name.
Joe Donaldson? No, that wasn't his name. Anyway,
he came in and started telling me what we needed for
the president's house, and he was just out buying
it, and then he found out that we were paying for it
all. And when we got our first bill of $3,000, and
Jack wrote the bill, wrote the check for it, he
found out that the university wasn't buying this
stuff that he was bringing in that we needed. And so
he stopped. He said, I didn't realize you all were
paying for this, but I got some nice things out of
that $3,000. And
we...
We were okay. We were going, and I picked the house
in, it was picked for me before we got to Houston by
the president's wife and the agent showed us his
house. And after we went home, we looked at a few and
she called back and said, you want it? And I said,
yes, I want it. And that was the only one we looked
at, the one we lived in on Drummond, close enough to
the medical center that Jack could come home for
lunch. Looking back on the A&M years, who would you
want to thank most? for their kindness during
those years?
Many names as you want to? Oh yeah, there'd be a
whole lot of names in there. And they mainly were
the people that looked after Jack and looked after
things. And anything I wanted, the university was
just wonderful about it. When I wanted a door just
in the family dining room, to close off the
kitchen. Can you imagine sitting there with
somebody at the sink running the dishwasher when
you're trying to have a meal in family dining area?
And I asked for a door, and they put me up a beautiful
door. And then when they were enclosing the back,
they were going to just cover up enough to broil
steaks. For Earl, they'd had to broil steaks in the
rain or something. So they wanted that enclosed,
the idea of enclosing that area was came from the
MSC because they'd had to come over there and work
and cater. And I said, no, let's run it down here.
And we ran it, you know, enlarged it, which was a
good addition. And then after we left, it was
enlarged even more. But I only asked for two things
while the time I lived in that Preston's house. One
was that door and the other one was the Amari bowl
for the dining room table. And Bill Paulman, I told
Bill Paulman what I wanted. I wanted a bowl. Is it
still there? Notice when you go.
I want a bowl that will sit alone. It needs no
flowers that can sit on its own on the middle of this
dining room table. And he said, what do you have in
mind? I said, well, an Amari bowl. And he came on the
airplane and carried it in his hands. And how much
the university paid for that bowl, I don't know.
But Margaret Rutter liked to do flower
arrangements. And I wanted something. I was
growing plants. I thought green plants brought
the house alive. And so I was just buying them and
killing them and buying some more. Jack didn't
care. You know, it's our money. But that's the only
two things I can remember ever asking for all the
time I lived there. Do you remember any attempts of
student humor at the president's house where the
students attempted to play a joke or anything or?
do something. No, only the two times that they
rolled the campus, rolled the house. What were
the, was there in a, no, I've seen the picture.
You've seen the one in the bathroom? Yes. Okay,
that was the second time. The first time they got
caught. And see, I had the experience of having a
teenage daughter in Knoxville, so I knew that if
you were attracted to a girl, then you went out and
rolled her lawn. And the first time, We got now what
we did the second time. Mary said, Mother, all you
have to do is get the hose and wash it down. Mary knew
about it. So anyway, the first time John Coldis
came to Jack, they got caught and run off, and they
left a whole box of toilet tissue, which I kept. I
couldn't find, say, y'all come back and get your
paper. And the second time, they didn't wake us up,
and they've completed the job. I mean, they really
webbed it. But the first time, John said, don't
punish them. He said, they just said they did it
because they liked you. And the second time is the
one we have the picture of in the bathroom. Have you
seen it? It's in there by the window. But that was,
other than that, the students, can you think of
anything they did? I don't. No, I can't remember in
Aggie lingo any good bull. Now, didn't they come
over to the house one of the first nights y'all were
there? Didn't the band come over and play? Well,
they had a yell session for Jack, and that's when
they got the money from the man read about it in the
paper. This is when there was so much problem.
Isn't that sweet, that picture? Yes, it is. My
brother, my son-in-law, Catherine's husband
brought me that from Jerusalem. He brought me that
bowl, and he brought me that vase right there. When
he goes on these trips, he brings me a gift. All
right, we're not far from being finished. Let me
beg you again, please don't, at some point, don't
let family papers that relate to experience at
Clemson and Texas A&M, please don't let those get
destroyed. I had said I didn't know what to do, and
there's a picture here I want to go back to A&M
that's in the living room that Polly Krueger gave
us, and I thanked him for it. I wrote him a letter and
thanked him on behalf of the university, and he
went to Jack and said, I gave Margaret Rutter one
and the other president's wife one, and this is for
Margaret, and I want it back if she doesn't want it,
and it'll only cost her a kiss. And so I still have
the picture, and he died since then, but I feel like
it's not the size. It means that it should be at the
university instead of in either one of the girls'
houses. They could carry it. Mary said, Mother, I
love it. It's got snow and water both. You know, she
skis with ice and water. But I would like for that to
go back sometime. And I had said something to Nelda
about Jack's papers. I don't know whether there's
anything there that's valuable or not. There
would be for a historian. But she said, I'll take
them. I'll keep them for you, which is so like her.
Yes. You know, she had kept clippings for all that
time that he was there and had just, we'd moved into
the board house, and they were at the foot of his bed
on a bench, and the fire water was there. But she had
kept very carefully newspaper clippings for that
whole period. All right, you see, it is to
understand the record 10, 50, 100 years from now
that I'm concerned about, and the A&M Archives is
now in very good condition in the Cushing Library,
the old part of the library, and very well
organized. So I'm begging that at some point,
whenever you think it's appropriate, perhaps in
your estate, that those not be destroyed, but be
put at whatever place you think is best, whether it
be Clemson or A&M or Summit both? Well, I feel like
that A&M would be... I don't think there's much
Clemson because Jack had a secretary here that
just kept everything. And every once in a while she
would say, I need a new filing cabinet. So he would
send her off to lunch and he would stay there and
clear out the filing cabinets. and say, here's
your filing cabinet. When she got back, he had just
emptied enough. But he threw everything away.
Nelda was the person who kept things. And a few
personal, anything that was controversial here,
he did not leave for the next person to have in his
files. He took them to the president and put them in
the president's files. That's good. That's good.
That's the way he worked.
And whatever he has in there. Every now and a while I
see something. You know, I've got several things
full of papers back there, but I didn't know where
to leave them for the girls to try to figure out what
to do with them. We could, Mary and I especially,
Mary's the one that's linked to Texas A&M, and
Catherine is the brain that has good judgment.
Well, you see, we don't, People don't keep diaries
anymore, and it's these private papers that are
the essential. Well, Jack's diaries
were not anything but just a note for himself, what
he had to be, where he had to be, and an address or a
time. He didn't write anything else. And he and I
both agreed that it was so sad that here I had kept
all his letters for those five years, that we were,
well, three, yeah, five years we knew each other
before we married. And I kept them, and when we
moved in this house, I put them in hat boxes in the
attic. And when we were moving to Texas, they had
silverfish in them. So I took them out and took a
couple of days to take the garbage can and burn all
the letters. And later... So that was when he told
me everything he did and I knew his friends, I knew
these people, and I got a good description. And we
both agreed that it was a sad time, sad that I burned
the letters. And he said, but they were mushy. You
see, that would, like the recent George Bush book
of his own, that would be a book right there. Well,
his Marine Corps letters would have been really
interesting. That's what I mean. But anyway, they
were mean. He and this other man in the Marine
Corps, after he ran an office, and every day he
wrote he had another job. They kept adding to his
work because he could get it done. He didn't have
any family or anybody. And he's fast. But they had
this trick that the Navy came in, and see, the
Marines have to sleep on the ground, you know, and
they don't have any good clean facilities or
anything like that. And the Navy people would come
in for billeting. Jack was the billeting officer
and the court recorder and all kinds of things. And
they had a joke about sending them to somebody
else. And they said, no, you get that from so and so.
And they were sending these Navy people all
around. Just out of meanness. But Jack's next war,
he had planned to be in the Navy where you had clean
sheets.
What were your feelings about your task at A&M?
What was the president's wife? What was her role as
you thought of it? Well, my role was I didn't think
of myself as being very important now. My role was
to run the house, take care of him, and do whatever
somebody told me I should do. And I added one thing
that they still do, the Saul Ross Tee. That was my
idea. I said, if the ladies come back here and their
husbands are in the Sul Ross place, then I should
have them for tea. And I've been reminded since I
lived here that they still have the Sul Ross tea.
Have you ever been to a Sul Ross tea? I used to help
you. Well, I can't remember. It's all so far back.
But that was my idea. And then I did do one other
thing that was new. When they got girls
sororities, and these were academic sororities,
not social, they came for breakfast and
initiations. And I had worked out a system with my
caterers that that bar that was out on that back,
closed-in area, there's a rolling bar back there.
We could move that up across the kitchen table.
Move it to where it was convenient to the kitchen.
and have a pick-up breakfast on it. Those groups
could come in and have their breakfast and an
initiation and be gone in an hour for their 8
o'clock class. Now that worked out real well.
Of course, the board came unless they wanted to go
to see football practice. We had one board member
that was scary.
He would walk out, he would put his cigarette, he
never stuffed out a cigarette. He just put it down,
left it burning. And I would always say, you all go
on, I have to do some picking up. I always stayed to
find out how many burning cigarettes he had left
around in that wild. But you know what I'm saying is
I didn't feel like when they asked, when the TV
station wanted to come out and interview me, I sent
back word no because I met her after Jarvis was
pressed and I was sitting there with Pinky
McCauley and I'd bought tickets for both of us to go
to this lunch and they announced that... But they
were glad to have Ms. Williams here as a guest. And I
said out loud, since Pinky was there, I'm not a
guest. I bought two tickets for this. And I didn't
know that the lady across the street with me was the
one who had called from the TV station wanting to
come out and interview me. And she identified
herself, said, I didn't know who I was eating with.
She didn't know me, and I didn't know her. And I
said, then I explained to her that I said, they have
Jack up to their teeth, and they didn't need me,
too. And I did stop the newcomers from going
upstairs. And they wanted to block the steps, and I
said, no, that's an insult. But this is not a house
tour. This is a morning coffee, and they're
supposed to visit with people. And I didn't let
them go upstairs. I don't know whether you
remember that or not. When Dr. Williams was hired,
did you assume that they had hired a two-person
team? Never gave it a thought. We were always, you
know, I didn't think about my having a job. You
know, I did what I had to do here, and I wasn't very
involved except with his staff at the
coordinating board. And some of the ladies,
though, whose husbands were his staff at the
board, you know, his media staff, but the members
of the board, they came to call on me. But they lived
all over the state, so there wasn't anything much
that I could have done about that. And as I said,
that was a time in my life when I was busy raising two
girls, and I don't think you'd desert teenage
girls. If someone, next to last question, if
someone gave you a million-dollar check now, and
had only one requirement, that you must pass that
check on to Texas A&M, but you can decide what the
check would be used for. What would you tell Texas
A&M to do with your gift? This million dollars that
somebody hands you and you can pass it on. Well, it
would go back to the former students. To do what?
Whatever they do. You'd give them complete free
will to use it? I wouldn't be able to go back there
now and say, or to give it to the president.
Jack always sent to Emory & Henry when he made his
donations there. It was always for the president,
for his discretionary fund. And I think you could
do that to the president. He would know where it
went. Now, when somebody dies, when Aggie dies, I
send it to the former students. Mm-hmm. You know,
NELDA keeps me posted and so forth, and that's
where I send it, but either to the president for his
discretionary budget or to the former students,
because I feel like they were looking after
things, and they were so interested in their
university. For instance, now, first thing I'd do
would be pay off Joe Moore's debt on the sculpture.
On the sculpture? I just gave him $500 to start
with, but I told him when I was there I'd give him
$500 or more again if it didn't already get it off of
his back. And I don't know what in the world it cost
him or what it has cost him. Do you have any idea? No,
I don't. And who paid for the one that went to
Germany? I have no idea. They sent me a picture of
them gathering in Germany. They sent me snapshots
of that, and that was a beautiful thing to do. I
agree. All right, what topics have we left out that
we should have included? What have we not talked
about that you want to be sure is included in this?
Well, the only thing that I would say was that Jack
was blessed with a good staff. He was blessed with
students that were not troublemakers. A little
bit of streaking wasn't a great big deal.
The former students were always there to help. The
faculty wasn't giving them a lot of trouble. I
think things ran rather smoothly. Now, you would
have known where there was a problem here and a
problem there. The dean of women sent one of her
problems to Jack. I told you about that. You know,
everybody has problems in their job, but I think
that Jackwood felt like it ran pretty smoothly.
The board wasn't the easiest thing to deal with,
but he had good members of the board, wonderful
members of the board to help him.
But you have, nothing's perfect, but I have no
complaints about anything. Last question then.
What feelings do you hold in your heart about Texas
A&M now?
I feel like they have a lot of pride in their
university, that they're willing to help their
university in any way they can. And there's a lot of
ego every place you go, and then a lot of dedicated
people that don't ask for any recognition for
anything they do. And...
it was all right for me to go back twice in 20 years
let's quit there isn't that okay